HTML

Hypertext markup language is used to aid in the publication of web pages by providing
a structure that defines elements like tables, forms, lists and headings, and identifies where
different portions of our content begin and end. It can be used to embed other file formats
like videos, audio files, documents like PDFs and spreadsheets, among others. HTML is
the most relied upon language in the creation of web sites. In this text we will focus on
HTML5. While it is technically still in draft form, many proposed elements are already
supported by the newer versions of most of the popular browsers.

Before we can create our first web page, we need to create a file that our service will
recognize as a web page. To do this, we can open our chosen text editor (see a short list of
potentials in the section on Integrated Development Environments), and create a new
document if one was not created automatically. We will immediately select “Save As” from
your editor’s File menu, and give your new page its name. If this is going to be the front
page, or first page you want a user to see for your site, you should name it index. Index is the
default file name most web servers look for in any folder of your website; it saves your users
from having to know and type the page name as part of the URL

CSS

CSS is a collection of styles that allows you to enhance the appearance f HTML elements on web pages.
It can be used to define a set of formatting options that can be used to format text and other HTML elements.
It defines a set of standard rules that provides a better control over the page layout and the appearance.
CSS can be applied to specific HTML elements on a web page, to all the elements on the web page, or across
all the web pages of the website.
The selector is a good place to start with CSS. It is used to identify which item(s) the rule(s)
following it will apply to, and is the first element of a rule definition. A selector can refer to
an existing tag that is part of the HTML structure like unordered lists, paragraphs, inputs,
or it can refer to a custom class, element’s name, or ID that we create.

JSCRIPT

JavaScript is a client-side script, meaning the browser processes the code instead of the
web server. Client-side scripts are commonly used when we want to validate data before
sending it to the web server, adjusting the interface in response to user feedback, and for
implementing other advanced features. Since JavaScript is part of the browser, it can be
run without a web server present. If the computer is slow or busy, the performance of our
code may be reduced. If JavaScript is disabled (less of a concern today than just a few years
ago) then our script will not run. This being said, this is less of an issue now, and JavaScript
can reduce the number of communications to a server, reducing transmission time and
improving performance.
